Our Story
The tools, the templates, the knowledge, the reference materials—it is all available to you. Let’s take these materials and apply them to a time-sensitive business opportunity at AAVAIL. This case study will encompass all of the stages of the AI enterprise workflow. As a data scientist, you will always be required to learn new tools, models, concepts and more. While this case study can be completed with the tools that have been covered up until this point, it is like most, if not all, projects in that you will be challenged to find ways to improve it. Recall the best practices you have learned throughout the workflow in order to complete the final case study in a timely way. The reality of many enterprise environments is that time allocated to a project is a scarce resource that you, as a data scientist, should always keep in mind. The iterative nature of the AI workflow combined with diligence can keep your projects on track.

The final part of your learning phase as an AAVAIL data scientist will require you to customize and deploy a model that fits a very specific business need. You will be asked to create a revenue projection tool that will be used by managers and executives at your company. This particular business opportunity is not overly complex in that there are several ways to obtain decent solutions without a need for high levels of customization. But it should also be obvious that the stakes are fairly high and you will want to ensure that the project is done to the best of your abilities.


THE DESIGN THINKING PROCESS
This project came about as a result of many months of work.  The most  important work was conducted with two separate groups, 1) end users,  and 2) managers responsible for revenue projections.  Interviews,  workshops, empathy maps, and many other design thinking tools were used  in the process of determining what works and what doesn’t work for end  users, and what the major pain points are for the managers.

The end result of this work is a hill, a statement that  allows a group to focus on a particular goal.  Hills are statements  organized according to the principle of “who, what, wow”.

Who are the end users that will benefit.

What are the end users doing or trying to accomplish

Wow, what is the new aspect that will be developed to help them achieve their goal

In this case, we have two hills that have been specified, one for the  end users and one for the managers. The end user hill statement is:

Our customers will be able to subscribe and pay for AAVAIL  services by combining any services they desire and being charged only  for those services.

The manager statement reads as follows:

AAVAIL product managers will be able to project a particular  country’s revenue for the following month using a machine learning model  that will provide revenue estimates and confidence measures for those  estimates.

Each of these hill statements provides the team at large with the  goals to be accomplished. The data scientist would look at the end user  hill statement and immediately see the complexity involved in tracking  revenue from end users that are subscribing to services a la carte.  The  manager hill statement is specific enough to allow a data scientist to  understand what is needed, without specifying how that goal will be achieved.