What is in the Capstone and Associated Review?
The readings provided as part of this review are taken from the Module reviews provided in the first 5 courses of this specialization.  

Capstone Tasks
The capstone project is divided into 3 parts to allow you to more easily manage your time spent on the project.

PART 1: Data Investigation
Assimilate the business scenario and articulate testable hypotheses.

State the ideal data to address the business opportunity and clarify the rationale for needing specific data.

Create a python script to extract relevant data from multiple data sources, automating the process of data ingestion.

Investigate the relationship between the relevant data, the target and the business metric.

Articulate your findings using a deliverable with visualizations.

PART 2: Model Iteration
State the different modeling approaches that you will compare to address the business opportunity.

Iterate on your suite of possible models by modifying data transformations, pipeline architectures, hyperparameters and other relevant factors.

Re-train your model on all of the data using the selected approach and prepare it for deployment.

Articulate your findings in a summary report.

PART 3: Model Production
Build a draft version of an API with train, predict, and logfile endpoints.

Using Docker, bundle your API, model, and unit tests.

Using test-driven development, iterate on your API in a way that anticipates scale, load, and drift.

Create a post-production analysis script that investigates the relationship between model performance and the business metric.

Articulate your summarized findings in a final report.

Important:
The target audience for each part of the deliverable:

Part 1 - the business stakeholders since their buy-in will often be required to secure the correct data and launch a project. 

Part 2 - fellow members of the data science team since you want to be able to incorporate technical feedback. 

Part 3 - the audience could be different depending on the enterprise. For this case study, we will return to communicating directly with business stakeholders, because this is a skill that for many data scientists there is room to improve.

What is being evaluated?
Upon completion of this capstone you will need to submit your work for peer review.  The following questions are being evaluated as part of the peer review submission:

Are there unit tests for the API?

Are there unit tests for the model?

Are there unit tests for the logging?

Can all of the unit tests be run with a single script and do all of the unit tests pass?

Is there a mechanism to monitor performance?

Was there an attempt to isolate the read/write unit tests from production models and logs?

Does the API work as expected? For example, can you get predictions for a specific country as well as for all countries combined?

Does the data ingestion exists as a function or script to facilitate automation?

Were multiple models compared?

Did the EDA investigation use visualizations?

Is everything containerized within a working Docker image?

Did they use a visualization to compare their model to the baseline model?