Capstone Assignment 1: Through the Eyes of Our Working Example

Our Story
Recently at AAVAIL there has been discussion among management about different approaches to revenue generation. AAVAIL launched using a tiered, subscription-based service which showed promise, but conversations with users, especially those outside of US markets, prompted an experiment using an à la carte approach. This experiment was carried out mostly outside of the US and there are now a couple of years of data with a few thousand active users. The data are transaction-level purchases across 38 different countries and are invoiced in batches. Management has nearly decided to make the switch to the new model, but they find it difficult to predict monthly revenue. They have asked you to create a service that, at any point in time, will predict the revenue for the following month. They have also asked that the service be given the ability to project revenue for a specific country. To keep the development time reasonable you have been advised to limit your model to the ten countries with the most revenue.

You have spoken at length with the managers who will be the end users of this model and they are confident that this product will have a meaningful business impact. Currently, these managers are using their own methods to predict revenue, but they have come to feel that they are spending too much time on this and their lack of expertise in data science means their predictions are not as accurate as they would like. The management team expects to spend less time creating their own projection models, and they expect the new results to be more accurate. They have assured you that well-projected numbers will help stabilize staffing and budget projections which will have a beneficial ripple effect throughout the company.