Capstone Part 1: Getting Started (Hands-On)
You are given the data as JSON (use the github link below). Also use the README to help guide your investigation.

You will need to access the following link to download the files for completing this assignment prior to continuing.  Please refer to Part 1 of the Readme for additional information/instructions:

https://github.com/aavail/ai-workflow-capstone

As you clean the data and construct the feature matrix, keep in mind the business opportunity

Hint:  Accurately predicted monthly revenue is needed to improve manager and executive decision making

If the current month is April your model will need to predict the revenue for May. If you decide to use a supervised learning approach to this prediction problem, we will provide some guidance with respect to feature engineering. We will also talk about the use of time-series modeling approaches, but both of these topics will be in the next part of the case study. First, you need to understand the business scenario in the context of available data and carry out an investigation. The goals of this part of the case study are below.

Assimilate the business scenario and articulate testable hypotheses.

State the ideal data to address the business opportunity and clarify the rationale for needing specific data.

Create a python script to extract relevant data from multiple data sources, automating the process of data ingestion.

Investigate the relationship between the relevant data, the target and the business metric.

Articulate your findings using a deliverable with visualizations.

  